Translation connector (#409)
akeneo/pim-api-docs: content/guides/translation-connection/step3-how-to-build-your-connector.md

* the connection `username`,
* the connection `password`.

:::warning
Don't forget to set the [permissions](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/manage-your-connections.html#set-the-permissions) of this connection!
:::

As you may understand, your connector needs to have a dedicated UI or a configuration file in order to manage these PIM API credentials.

### Check Julia's PIM data

Then, in order for your connector to be able to add translations, Julia's PIM must be correctly set up.

:::warning
That's why you must check with Julia that in her PIM:
* All locales required for translations have been activated.
* All attributes requiring translation for products or product models are set to "localizable".
:::

### Create a translation attribute group

First, in order not to confuse these new product attributes with some of her other product attributes, it is necessary for Julia to create **a specific attribute group** named `Translations`.

To create this attribute group:
1. Go to `Settings > Attribute groups`
2. Click on `CREATE` in the top-right corner
3. Add a new attribute group with the code and label: `Translations`.

### Create translation attributes

> Then Julia must create 6 new attributes in this attribute group:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, Julia must create 6 new attributes in this attribute group:
```

> * `Translation submission name`: This attribute allows Julia to set a name to her translation project. It also allows her to easily find this project with this name in the interface of your online translation solution. Set up this attribute as followed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Translation submission name`: This attribute allows Julia to set a name for her translation project. It'll also allow her to easily find the project in the interface of your online translation solution. Set up this attribute as followed:
```

  - Attribute type: text
  - Attribute code: `translationName`
  - Attribute label: `Translation submission name`
  - Attribute group: `Translations`
  - Usable in grid: enabled

> * `Translation submitter`: This simple select attribute should contain in its options, all possible contributor names. This attribute allows Julia to associate her name to her translation project. Set up this attribute as followed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Translation submitter`: This attribute allows Julia to associate her name with her translation project. Among its options, this simple select attribute should list all the possible contributor names. Set up this attribute as followed:
```

  - Attribute type: simple select  
  - Attribute code: `translationSubmitter`
  - Attribute label: `Translation submitter`
  - Attribute group: `Translations`
  - Usable in grid: enabled

> * `Translation queued`: This attribute allows Julia to set if a product need to be translated. Set up this attribute as followed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Translation queued`: This attribute allows Julia to define if a product needs to be translated. Set up this attribute as followed:
```

  - Attribute type: Yes/No (Boolean)
  - Attribute code: `translationQueued`
  - Attribute label: `Translation queued`
  - Attribute group: `Translations`
  - Usable in grid: enabled

> * `Translation locales`: This multi select attribute should contains in its `options` all destination locales Julia can use to make her translation requests. These same `locales` must of course also already exist in Akeneo PIM and in your online Translation tool. This attribute allows Julia to choose one or more target locales for her translation project. Set up this attribute as followed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Translation locales`: This attribute allows Julia to choose one or more target locales for her translation project. This multi-select attribute should contain, in its `options`, all the possible destination locales Julia can use for her translation requests. These same `locales` must already exist in Akeneo PIM and in your online translation tool. Set up this attribute as followed:
```

>   - Attribute type: multi select

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Attribute type: multi-select
```

  - Attribute code: `translationLocales`
  - Attribute label: `Translation locales`
  - Attribute group: `Translations`
  - Usable in grid: enabled

> * `Translation due date`: This attribute allows Julia to indicate to translators when she would like her products to be translated. Set up this attribute as followed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Translation due date`: This attribute allows Julia to indicate when she would like her products to be translated. Set up this attribute as followed:
```

  - Attribute type: date
  - Attribute code: `translationDate`
  - Attribute label: `Translation due date`
  - Attribute group: `Translations`
  - Usable in grid: enabled  

> * `Translation status`: This attribute allows your translator to give a status about the translation project to Julia. As this last attribute has a `Read only` property, it can't be modified by Julia. Only your connector can modify this status through API and set the translation project status for each desired locale. This attribute contains these options:    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Translation status`: This attribute allows your translator to give a status about the translation project to Julia. As this attribute has a `Read only` property, it can't be modified by Julia. This status can only be modified by your connector through the API and set the translation project status for each desired locale. This attribute contains these options:    
```

  |      Code      |     Label      |
  | :------------- | :------------- |
  | INPROGRESS     | In progress    |
  | TRANSLATED     | Translated     |
  | CANCELLED      | Cancelled      |
  Then, set up this attribute as followed:
  - Attribute type: simple select  
  - Attribute code: `translationStatus`
  - Attribute label: `Translation status`
  - Attribute group: `Translations`  
  - Value per locale: enabled (in order to have a status for each locale)    
  - Read only: enabled (can only be modified via API)   
  - Usable in grid: enabled
  
::: tips
To create an attribute:
1. Go to `Settings > Attributes`

> 2. Click on `CREATE ATTRIBUTE` at the top right corner of the screen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click on `CREATE ATTRIBUTE` in the top-right corner of the screen
```

:::

:::info
This list of attributes is not exhaustive and may need to be adapted depending on your online translation solution and the information required to perform a translation project.
:::

Once the `Translation` attribute group and its attributes have been created, Julia needs to assign the `Translations` attribute group to all existing families.

:::tips
Julia can do this by using this [bulk action](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/product-mass-actions.html) process:
1. Go to `Settings > Families`
2. Select all families

> 3. Click on the `BULK ACTIONS` button at the bottom of the page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click on `BULK ACTIONS` at the bottom of the page
```

4. Select `Set attributes requirements` and then click on `NEXT`

> 5. Click on the `ADD BY GROUPS` dropdown option and `ADD` the `Translations` attribute group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Click on `ADD BY GROUPS` and `ADD` the `Translations` attribute group
```

6. Click on `CONFIRM`
:::

And that's it! Congratulations! 🎉  

> Everything is now ready to receive Julia's PIM products she wants to translate!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Everything is now ready for Julia to receive the PIM products she wants to translate!
```

## Julia's translation process

As you have understood, Julia will use the previous PIM attributes to define which of her products are to be translated and how they will be processed.

Now let's see how Julia will work with these new PIM translation features.

### Select the attributes to be translated

> First, Julia needs to select product she wants to translate:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, Julia needs to select the product she wants to translate:
```

> 1. Go to the `Products` menu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to `Products`
```

2. Select the "source" locale

> 3. Select products (and/or product models) you want to translate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select the products (and/or product models) you want to translate
```

:::tips

> For this product selection, Julia can help herself by using her PIM grid [filtering](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/products-grid.html#use-filters) system or by creating a [specific view](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/manage-your-views.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a seamless product selection, Julia can use her PIM grid [filtering](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/products-grid.html#use-filters) system or create a [specific view](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/manage-your-views.html).
```

:::

### Perform a "bulk action"

Then, she needs to perform a [bulk action](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/product-mass-actions.html) on these products.

> For this action, Julia have to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this action, Julia has to:
```

> 1. Click on the `BULK ACTIONS` button at the bottom of the page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click on `BULK ACTIONS` at the bottom of the page
```

2. Select `Edit attributes values` and click on `NEXT`

> 3. In the `SELECT ATTRIBUTES` dropdown, search and select these 5 translation attributes and click on `ADD`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In `SELECT ATTRIBUTES`, search and select these 5 translation attributes and click on `ADD`:
```

    * Translation submission name
    * Translation submitter
    * Translation queued
    * Translation locales
    * Translation due date
4. Now set the translation attributes:

>     * `Translation name`: enter the desired name for the translation project,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `Translation name`: Enter the desired name for the translation project,
```

>    * `Translations submitter`: select her name,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `Translations submitter`: select Julia's name,
```

>     * `Translation queued`: enable the attribute by sliding the toggle button towards `Yes`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `Translation queued`: Select `Yes` to enable the attribute,
```

    * `Translation locales`: select the desired target locales for translation,

>     * `Translation due date`: Select the date on which you want to receive the translation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `Translation due date`: select the translation deadline.
```

5. Click on `NEXT` and `CONFIRM` to launch the bulk action.

After this last action, the bulk action will run and Julia will be notified in the Akeneo PIM notification bar once it is successfully executed.

> With these new attributes, your connector is now ready to go!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With these new attributes, your connector is now ready to go! Let's see how it'll behave on the other side of the connector. 
```

### How it works with your connector?

At regular intervals, your connector will need to retrieve products where the `Translation queued` attribute has been set to enable (set to `true`).

You can do this by using our PIM [API filtering system](https://api.akeneo.com/documentation/filter.html#filter-on-product-values) on product attribute value.

> Then your connector needs to set this attribute to `false` and change the `Translation status` attribute to `IN PROGRESS` to indicate to Julia that the translation is being processed by one of your translators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, your connector needs to set this attribute to `false` and change the `Translation status` attribute to `IN PROGRESS` to indicate Julia that the translation is being processed by one of your translators.
```

:::tips
Using the ["get a list of products"](https://api.akeneo.com/api-reference.html#get_products) API endpoint (with the correct filter), your connector will retrieve a JSON structure of each localizable products.

> Then with the help of the family code of these products, your connector will be able to call the ["get the list of attributes"](https://api.akeneo.com/api-reference.html#get_attributes) API endpoint to retrieve the type of each attributes that compose this product family.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, with the help of the family code of these products, your connector will be able to call the ["get the list of attributes"](https://api.akeneo.com/api-reference.html#get_attributes) API endpoint to retrieve each attribute type that composes this product family.
```

> By analyzing these types, you will be able to define for your translator which are the textual attributes he needs to translate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By analyzing these types, you will be able to define for your translator which are the textual attributes they need to translate.
```

:::

> When the translation is finished, your translator needs to set the `Translation status` attribute to `TRANSLATED` and import all translated product data back in the PIM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the translation is finished, your translator needs to set the `Translation status` attribute to `TRANSLATED` and to send all the translated product data back in the PIM.
```

> If for some reason the translation project has been canceled, your translator needs to set the `Translation status` attribute to `CANCELLED` and import this product data back into the PIM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If, for some reason, the translation project has been canceled, your translator needs to set the `Translation status` attribute to `CANCELLED` and to send this product data back into the PIM.
```

:::info

> To develop theses connector actions, and to understand our API please follow our [wonderful dedicated API documentation](https://api.akeneo.com)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To develop these connector actions, and to understand our API please follow our [wonderful dedicated API documentation](https://api.akeneo.com)!
```

:::

### Check the "Translation status"

> Now let's go back to Julia's side and see how she can check her translation projects status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's go back to Julia's side and see how she can check her translation project status.
```
